Linux Commands

Linux® is an open source operating system (OS). An operating system is the software that directly manages a system's hardware and resources, like CPU, memory, and storage.

linux:It is mostly used for computer software and hardware, tablet PCS, mainframes, etc. 
unix:It is mostly used on web servers, workstations, mainframes, and PCs but Intel, HP, etc.
BASH: It runs on multiple OS,It can read and execute commands from a file known as a shell script. 
1. ls-to list the contents of a directory
2.ps- to list the running processes
3.mpstat-provides the information about cpu performance and utilization by giving cpu statistics.
4.ls-l -list with long format to show permissions of all the files and directories only.
5.ls-lh - to know the size of a file.
6.ls -a - to show all files including hidden one.
7.ls-d :  to list directories.
8.ls -n:  to list user id and group id of files and directories.
ls -t : sort by time and date.
7.ls -R - to list the directories recursively.
8.ls-lhs- to list the files longest at the top.
9.env-to  list all the environment variables.
10.echo-  to print the text
11.whoami-to know the currently logged user.
12.sudo su- to go to root user.
13.sudo bash-to change the currently logged user to another user.allow a user with proper permissions to execute a command as another user
15.pwd-to know prasent working directory.
16.ls -ltc  - last modified file will come first.
17.ls -ltr : display the reverse o/p order by date
17.uname -r-to  know kernel release number.
18.uname -m- to know kernel machine type.
19.uname -o- to know name of Operating system.
20.cd- :to go to last working directory.
21.cd/: it will go to root directory.
cd~ : it will go to home path.
21.history-will display all commands till now.
22.mkdir- to create a directory.
23.cd dirname-to move inside directory.
24.rmdir directory name: to remove the directory.
25.rm -rf directoryname: to remove directory forcefully.
25.rm filename: to remove file.
24.touch - to create a file.
25.vi or cat > filename -to edit the file.
26.cat - to see the content inside the file.
27.head -3 filename-to see the first 10 lines of a file.
28.tail -4 filename-to see the last 10 lines of a file.
29.wc -l-to know the number of lines in a file.
30.wc -w-to know the number of words in a file.
31.wc-m- to know the number of characters in a file.
32.sort -n filename  -to sort the contents of a file numerically.
33.sort -u filename - to sort the contents of a file alphabetically.
34.Grep: is used to search for a string of characters in a specified file.
Grep -i "shiva"- it will highlet the word shiva.
Grep a.. filename -it will highlet two letters after a.
Grep ..a filename- it will highlet two letters before a.
Grep -c filename-  it will show how many shiva words are there in a file.
chmod +x filename- to give all permissions.
cp- to copy files and directories from one directory to another.
mv-  move files and directories from one directory to another or to rename a file or directory
cd downloads/- to move into downloads directory.
to kill a process: There are two commands used to kill a process: kill – Kill a process by ID. killall – Kill a process by name.
After applying history command it will show u how many commands u have applied till now, if you want to apply 21 command we need to give !21.
!!: it will execute last command.
history -c : to delete the history.
uname -a : will tell you machine name, kernel type and all.
date: current system date ,time and zone.
date +%d-%m-%y - it will show date month year of today.
htop” command: It can be used to find the memory load of each process.
“top” command: It can be used to check the usage of memory. 
Name command that can immediately shutdown a computer running Linux: telinit 0.
Name command that is commonly used to record sessions in Linux : script.

Maximum size (in bytes) of the filename in Linux can be : 255 bytes.
Name the directory that contains configuration files in Linux : /etc/.
man --command in Linux is used to display the user manual of any command that we can run on
the terminal.

YUM Repository:
Yum is a local repository for RPM package files. These packages compress available software for Linux distributions. With the repository, you can download, install and hold packages on a local disk or remotely.
RPM : Red-hat Package Manager, is an open-source program for installing, uninstalling, and managing software packages in Linux.
Password expiry : chage command.
A cron job is a Linux command used for scheduling tasks to be executed sometime in the future.
crontab -e: edits crontab entries to add, delete, or edit cron jobs.
crontab -l: list all the cron jobs for the current user.
scp (secure copy) command : in Linux system is used to copy file(s) between servers in a secure way.
sorting is used to sort the contents of a file.
cal : it will show the prasent month with date.

     4 ----- stands for “read”.
     2 ----- stands for “write”.
     1 ----- stands for “excecutable”.
     0 ----- stands for “no permissions”.
Ex:
$ Chmod 754 ST 
  Here 7,5,4 represents the individual 7 permissions for user ,group and other peoples.
7 --------- 4+2+1=7  all permissions (rwx).
5 --------- 4+1=5  only read and excecutable permissions.
4 --------- 4=4  only read permissions.

-	rwx rw- r--  this is the file
-	drwx xr- x--  this is the directory

chgrp command in Linux is used to change the group ownership of a file or directory.
What is less in Linux command?
The less command is a Linux terminal pager that shows a file's contents one screen at a time.
What does the more command do in Linux?
more command is used to view the text files in the command prompt, displaying one screen at a time in case the file is large 
It can be used to find files and directories and perform subsequent operations on them. 
Netstat command displays various network related information such as network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, multicast memberships etc.,
sudoers:  to allocate system rights to system users.
users: owner of a file ( person who created a file).
group; it consists of multiple users in group so that they have same permissions.
chmod: used to change the access mode of a file.
chown: used to change owner of a file

